added doc for integration (#43)
spherex-xyz/spherex-contracts: docs/Integration_Guide.md

That being said, and because the developer of the smart contracts will always know it better than we do, it is important for you as the developer of the protected contract to undestand the process of integration and the various aspects of that process.

- [Protection  - the big picture](#protection----the-big-picture)
- [Some terms and defenitions](#some-terms-and-defenitions)
    - [Contracts in the system](#contracts-in-the-system)
    - [Entities and addresses](#entities-and-addresses)
- [Integration](#integration)
  - [Inline vs Proxy](#inline-vs-proxy)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Special cases](#special-cases)
- [What Should you do?](#what-should-you-do)
  - [Roles and Permissions](#roles-and-permissions)
  - [For each of you'r contracts:](#for-each-of-your-contracts)
    - [For immutable contracts (inline protection):](#for-immutable-contracts-inline-protection)
    - [For mutable contracts (proxy protection):](#for-mutable-contracts-proxy-protection)
    - [In the deployment Scripts](#in-the-deployment-scripts)

> ## Protection  - the big picture

Reviewer: I think this is redundant as it is already illustrated in the docs

Author: I don't want to assume the devs read the docs **and remember it**

- Spherex protection works by identifiying suspicious and malicious behavior patterns of a transaction as it is being executed by the protocol (between any number of contracts)
- The granularity of the protection is **functions** - meaning the smallest unit of code we track behaviour of is a function.
  - The data collected and used for each function in each protocol may change, depending on various factors (gas cost in the chain, past history, client requests, etc.)
- `pure` and `view` functions are not protected, as they do not change the state of the contract , and therefore do not require protection.

## Some terms and defenitions

#### Contracts in the system

> - **Protected Contract**: The smart contract that is being protected by Spherex.

Reviewer: There's more than one protected smart contract. maybe use plural form

> - **Spherex Engine**: This is a smart contract written by spherex that acts as *the brain* of the protection system.

Reviewer: "Brain" might sound overwhelming. Use "stores the set of rules"

Author: how about now?

Reviewer: "stores the and allows"?

> - **Spherex Engine**: This is a smart contract written by spherex that acts as *the brain* of the protection system.

Reviewer: "Provided by spherex and deployed as part of the protocol"

Author: check it

>   - The protected contracts in the protocol communicate with the Spherex Engine to perform various operations (send information and get approval for the current state of the transaction).

Reviewer: There's only single operation being performed - revert or keep going

Author: how about now?

Reviewer: The protected contracts don't revert

>   - The protected contracts in the protocol communicates with the Spherex Engine to track the behavior of a transaction as it's being executed and revert it if it's malicious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The protected contracts in the protocol communicate with the SphereX Engine. The engine tracks the behavior of the transaction as it's being executed and reverts it if it's malicious.
```

Reviewer: Maybe this

#### Entities and addresses

> - **Operator**: The address (whether EOA or a contract) that actaully configures and updates the protection of the contract. This can be either the protocol developer/manager, the SphereX tech team, or any other wallet that has the permission to do so.

Reviewer: why actually?

> - **Admin**: The address (whether EOA or a contract) that controls the operator. This should be the protocol owner , and it's meant as a protection against a rogue operator.

Reviewer: Don't use "rogue operator" it sounds bad

Author: OK. how would you put it? what do you think of this?

Reviewer: remove "and it's meant as a protection against a rogue operator". replace with "making sure you're always in control of the protection"

- **Allowed Senders** - One of our protection mechanisms is to only allow pre approved addresses to send data to the engine. So this is just a list of all the contracts that are allowed to send data to the engine.
  - This becomes important if you deploy contracts dynamically (for example, using the factory pattern).

This is a good place to emphesize and reiterate: the **Operator** and the **Admin** can be a wallet address (EOA) but cal also be a smart contract (like a DAO contract or a multisig)

> This also means that if indeed we use a smart contract as the operator or the admin, we will need to set the various roles accordingly, and also implement in that *managine contract* the various managment functions needed:

Reviewer: Managine?

- An Admin should be able to set the operator
- An Operator has many many funcionalities (like setting the engine, adding and removing allowed senders and patterns, and even configuring the active rules) - Please talk to the SphereX team to help you understand the various roles and permissions.

> If the protocol has some kind of a registry or management contract, it might be a good candidate for the operator/admin roles.

Reviewer: So if someone takes control of management, it also controls the protection?

Author: yes. He who controls the spice, controls the universe

## Integration

### Inline vs Proxy

The SphereX protection has 2 ways to integrate with a given smart contract:
1. **Inline**: The protection logic is integrated directly into the smart contract as function *decorators*, by inhereting from the contract `SphereXProtected`. This is used for immutable contracts.
1. **Proxy**: The protection logic is integrated into a proxy contract that wraps the protected contract. It is the proxy that communicates with the engine before and after passing the calls to the implementation contract. The integration is done by replacing the existing proxy with one of the SphereX proxies (there are many variation of the *protected proxy*) or inhereting directly from `SphereXProtectedProxy`. This is used for mutalbe\upgradable contracts.

>    - Proxy protection also allows to **configure what function are protected after deployments**. So you can decide for a given function that it does not require protection, and configure the engine and proxy to ignore it.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say this is a distinct feature

Author: so, what would you say?

Reviewer: I would remove it

> It is entirly possible (and quite common) to find both types of protection for contracts in a given protocol, as some of the underlying contracts are immutable and some are mutable.

Reviewer: entirely

Author: because it's a common figure of speech

Reviewer: But it's not a speech. It's a document. Not sure I would use it in this context

> It is entirly possible (and quite common) to find both types of protection for contracts in a given protocol, as some of the underlying contracts are immutable and some are mutable.

Reviewer: mutable -> upgradable

### Configuration

All protected contracts (inline or proxy) have these configuration functions:

> - `setAdmin` - the admin for the protected logic, can only replace the operator

Author: This is explained earlier in the entities. Do you think I should repeat myself?

- `setOperator` - the operator is the entity managing the protected contract
- `setEngine` - set the address of the engine → where we will send data about the behavior of the contract

In addition, a protected proxy also has this configuration function:
- `setProtectedSigs` - the functions we wish to protect and send data about their execution to the engine.
  - This is the mechansim with which we configure what functions to protect or ignore in the protection process.
  - **DO NOT** set view or pure function it will cause the engine to revert.

### Deployment

The constructor of our contracts expects three arguments: the **admin**, the **operator** and the **engine**. usually we will set them as follows:

- Admin - `msg.sender` (if we see the integrated contract receives owner as an argument we will use it as the admin)
- Operator - `address(0)`
- Engine - `address(0)`

#### Special cases

- If you are using a **contract to deploy your contract** you probably should change the admin to be `tx.origin` rather then msg.sender

> - If u have a **factory pattern** in your project this is a bit more complicated:

Author: requires considiration then?

> - If u have a **factory pattern** in your project this is a bit more complicated:

Reviewer: requires attention

    1. the factory should hold the admin, operator and the engine in his storage (or he should be able to retrieve them somehow) since when it deployes a new contract it should be able to pass them to the deployed contract.
    2. when the factory deploys a new contract it should call the function `_addAllowedSenderOnChain` in the engine to add the address of the new deployed contract.
        1. one of our protection mechanisms is to only allow pre approved addresses to send data to the engine, so the factory should add the new address to the engine allowed list of addresses. (dont worry the factory will get a special role in the engine to only allow him to add allowed addresses not everyone can do it).

## What Should you do?

> Here are a few steps we suggest to take to make sure the integration we created is full and correct:

Reviewer: "to take to" sounds a bit off

Author: check now
